- [Narrator] After the cluster is created,
our first thing is to deploy our application.
This is the same Java application
created using Spring Boot
and packaged as a Docker container.
Now if you recall,
our image name was Arun Gupta/Greeting.
And if you also recall,
when we deploy a Docker image as a container
in the Kubernetes cluster,
it is deployed using a resource manifest.
So, let's take a look
at what our resource manifest looks like.
Now, I'm in the Workspace directory.
So let's go to manifests, standalone directory.
And the first thing we're going to look at
is our greeting deployment manifest.
There is usually apiVersion, kind, metadata,
we're creating a single replica of the pod over here.
This is my pod template.
In that I'm assigning app colon greeting
as a label to each pod.
It's important we understand this label because
when I'm creating my service later on,
it's going to rely on these particular labels
being on the pod.
Then I go to pod Spec,
in that I'm creating a single container,
this is my image name,
and here are the ports that I'm exposing.
Let's look at my greeting service manifest now.
Again, very simple here,
apiVersion, kind, metadata,
and the selector is the key port here.
It's saying any pod that has the labels app colon greeting
are going to be included in the service,
and those are the labels that we attach
to in our deployment.
Of course, I'm exposing the ports here,
the target port is 8080,
and the port on which the service is going to be exposed
is 8080.
And I'm also saying type as LoadBalancer.
What that means is
if the service is published in a cloud environment,
then the cloud specific LoadBalancer
would be used to expose the service.
We'll see the behavior
when we deploy this in Docker Desktop.
So let's go ahead and create our deployment first.
So.
The command to create a deployment is Kubectl,
which is our CLI,
create -f pointing to the resource manifest file
and then the resource manifest file.
So this creates my deployment greeting.
I can look at the status for the deployment.
Kubectl get deployment.
Here's my deployment name,
how much desired,
how much current,
how much up-to-date,
how much available.
All these concepts are applicable
when you're doing rolling deployments
later on as well.
Let's look at our pods.
It says a single pod is up and running
and the status is running.
Let's look at the logs.
I'm going to copy the pod name here,
paste it here,
and here is the log from the spring boot application
that we created,
and that's shown as part of the log.
Now, deployment is created,
we checked on the pod, we checked on the logs,
next thing is to create the service.
Greeting-service.yaml.
Same command,
and now let's look at our service status
and as we said earlier,
greeting service is now created.
By assigning a local host as an external IP address
when running on a desktop environment,
it makes easy to access our service.
So, what are we going to do to access our service?
Curl,
http localhost
because this is the external IP assigned to our service.
Port is 8080
and our context is hello.
Viola,
we got a response hello back from our service.
Now, the big difference here is this is the exact same
Java application packaged as a Docker container
deployed as a Kubernetes deployment,
accessed using the Kubernetes service.
So as you can see,
we are making progress through our
workflow that we talked about earlier.
So let's go ahead and delete the resources
because we will look at different options
in the subsequent sections.
So, kubectl
delete -f, let's the delete the service first,
and then similarly we can delete the deployment as well.
And now if I look at service,
of course there is no service,
if I look at deployments,
there are no deployments,
and if I look at pods,
of course there are no pods.